[MUSIC]
This lecture,
we'll talk about the pins to the Arduino.
The pins [COUGH] are the connections
to the outside world.
The main connections to the outside
world are through these pins.
Pins are basically just pieces of metal
that come off the leads, pieces of metal
that come off the microcontroller that
you can connect to other devices.
And they can be inputs and outputs and so
on, and these are the main interfaces.
So we're gonna talk about these pins and
how you control them through the sketch
and how you observe them through sketch.
So we've got a picture
of the Arduino here.
It's got several pins.
Actually this isn't the whole picture,
but this is most of it.
The Arduino board itself
has two rows of pins.
The regular Arduino Uno has two
rows of pins, a row on the top,
you can see that row on the top, and
then a row on the bottom that you
actually can't see in this image.
So those are the rows
of pins on the board.
Those pins on the board are connected
to the pins to the leads on the chip.
So if you look at the microcontroller
there, circled in red,
you can see a bunch of metal leads of
the chip that are circled and highlighted.
Those are the leads of the chip that
are connected to those holes in the board.
So they are wired directly to those
holes through traces inside the board.
So if you wanna access the outside
world from the microcontroller,
the way you do it is you take a wire and
you plug it into those holes on the board.
Those holes on the board are connected
directly to the pins, to the leads of
the microcontroller and your code can then
control the pins and observe the pins.
So pins are wires that are connected
to the microcontroller.
They're the main interface.
Now there are other interfaces,
right, there's a USB and so forth.
But the main interface when you're
building one of these IoT systems
is through the pin.
So most of the other components
in the system will be
connected to the Ardiuno
board through those pins.
You will wire them to the pins.
The voltages on the pins can be controlled
by the sketch if it's an output pin,
which we'll talk about in a second.
So you can control
the voltages through a sketch.
You can call a function
inside your sketch,
it will set the voltage on the pin.
And pin voltages can be read by a sketch.
That is, if something else is
controlling the pin's voltage,
you can read what that voltage
is inside your sketch.
So pins can be designated as
output pins or input pins.
An output pin is controlled
by the Arduino, so
the voltage is determined by your sketch.
So your sketch calls a library
function which sets the voltage.
Other components can be
controlled through these outputs.
So say you wanna take, like here, an LED.
Take an LED,
you wanna connect that to an Arduino,
you will wire the two leads of
the LED to the pins of the Arduino.
Actually you'll probably use
a resistor in between, but
I'm not drawing that right now.
But you can wire the leads of
the component to the Arduino's pins.
And then you can write
code inside your Arduino,
write a sketch that assigns voltages to
those pins and does something to the LED,
presumably turns it off and on or
makes it blink or something like that.
So that's what output pins are for.
Output pins are for controlling
other devices from your Arduino.
Now pins can also be
designated as input pins.
Input pins are controlled by other
components, so that the outside component
controls the voltage on the input pin,
and the Arduino just reads the voltage.
So in this way the Arduino can
receive input from the outside world.
So this is how you connect
sensors up to the Arduino.
You take the sensor,
you wire it to some of these input pins.
The Arduino can then read the voltage and
interpret whatever the data is
that that sensor is producing.
So in this case we got a picture
of a switch, very simple.
If we wired this up properly,
this switch, if it's switched one way,
actually it's a three state,
but say it's a regular switch,
it just has two positions, on, off.
So we could wire a circuit so
that if the switch is switched one way,
that a voltage, maybe five volts,
would appear on one of the pins.
And if it was switched the other way,
then zero volts would appear.
And then inside your sketch, you can
detect if five volts is on the pin or
if zero volts is on the pin.
So you can determine if somebody
has flicked the switch or
not, and write some code to
do something appropriate.
So input pins are for
reading from sensors,
where output pins are generally for
driving actuators.
You can drive a motor with it or
something like that if it's an output pin.
Now pins can either be digital or analog.
Now we've mentioned what digital and
analog are before, but
in this case we're talking about
digital analog in terms of voltage.
Now basically the difference
between digital analog,
just to refresh your memory,
digital is like integers,
where analog is like real numbers,
continuous values.
But digital is discrete,
zero, one, two, so on.
So in our machine, if it's a digital pin
the voltage can either be zero volts or
five volts, on an Arduino Uno anyway.
And there are other variants of Arduino
that maybe change that, but for
Arduino Uno, it's zero volts,
five volts on the digital pin.
Now an analog pin can receive anywhere,
usually zero to five volts.
Actually you can change that
range if you want to, but
a continuous set of
values anywhere in there.
So some pins on the Arduino
are digital only,
can only act as digital pins,
and they're labeled.
So if you look at the Arduino board,
one side of them it says digital.
So actually I believe it has 14.
Yeah, pins 0 through 13 are digital pins.
So you can read digital
inputs off of a digital pin.
You can write digital outputs.
So you can read input.
You can attach it as an input, output,
as digital one, zero volts to five volts.
Some pins can be analog.
These analog pins, they're labeled a0
through a5, and they're on the other side.
They're also clearly labeled
on the Arduino board.
These analog pins,
you can read analog voltages.
So whatever the voltage is, the voltage
can be interpreted as a digital number.
We'll talk more about that later.
But the voltage can be interpreted and
read by a sketch.
And so your device can respond according
to whatever the voltage is, and
it can be an analog voltage.
It's useful to read analog sensors.
That's primarily what
you would use it for.
So there are a lot of sensors that
output analog information, so
you need to read those.
Analog only pins are clearly labeled.
No pins can generate analog output.
So the digital pins can read digital
input and drive digital output.
You can drive zeros and ones by
calling library functions of Arduino.
But the analog pins cannot
create analog outputs.
They can read analog inputs and
convert them to digital.
They can read analog inputs but
they can't drive analog outputs.
That's because we don't have a digital
analog converter inside the device.
So now there is a way we can fake it,
[LAUGH] using pulse with modulation and
we'll get to that in a later course.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]